some of you may be surprised that I'm
making such a short video in response to
a reasonably profound question someone
is written in asking me why am i an
anti-communist I'll read that letter in
just a moment um obviously I could give
very long answer research into the
history of communism has been a
significant part of my adult life I
could also make a whole separate video
but the fact that communism was a
significant part of my childhood but
that's a story for another day
I've studied the history of communism in
Russia in China but of course most
notably I think for many of my viewers
you're aware that have studied the
history of communism in Cambodia and
Laos among actually other examples in
preface to this video I'll just say I
have often been in a difficult position
especially when talking to older people
who don't get it who can't appreciate my
perspective the fact that I have an
anti-communist the fact that my critic
of communist the fact that I reject
communism as a philosophy as a political
movement otherwise does not mean that I
applaud uncritically American foreign
policy not at all so Cambodia in brief
is one of the worst disasters in the
history of communism it's also one of
the worst disasters in the history of
American foreign policy it's both the
fact that you know it's one type of
disaster doesn't mean you would ignore
the extent to which it's another type of
zester and right next door Laos is you
know a real interesting contrast
Laos also is one of the worst disasters
in the history of American foreign
policy and although you could say
communism has been a bit of a disaster
there it was a much less dramatic much
less extreme disaster than than
Cambodian communism so it's rarely
mentioned on the lists of the greatest
atrocities the greatest body counts or
the greatest examples of mass starvation
caused by communism so turning to the
question of God and I've gotten a
question from a guy named Ben who is a
21 year old student living in Ireland
he writes I've been following your
channel for about a year now and have
found your output engaging and
stimulating I've recently become
increasingly interested in left-wing
politics and it's been a great time
studying the thought of Marx
and angles and those who continued their
line of inquiry with all these letters I
do actually skip a little bit I compress
a little bit what these people have said
to me he then mentions that he s you
read my article robert jay lifton and
the self-directed cult so alright I'm
surprised thanks for reading that
article that's not one of my most
popular publications but that's actually
an examination of both communist
thinking and other forms of cult-like
thought with some comparative statements
some of the cult-like aspects of
historically real communism um he asks I
would like to know briefly your reason
for being anti-communist
it's very rare to find somebody who
isn't extremely right-wing taking that
position I'm curious about opposing
views because I'm not fully satisfied
with all the conclusion of many
left-wing thinkers I understand the
historical reason for being
anti-communist very readily what I'm
interested in knowing it about is what
it is in far-left thought that you're in
disagreement with philosophically so end
of a statement from this person it's me
and by the way I appreciate thank you
he's donating the one dollar a month to
support me by a patreon I encourage all
of you to sign up also you too can send
me questions and I'll make videos in
response to them now the body count of
communism the millions of deaths through
persecution through violence through war
through civil war the censorship the
refusal to allow democracy the refusal
of freedom speech all of those things
are tremendously important but they're
not what I mentioned first and foremost
in response to this question the most
fundamental succinct an important reply
I can give for why I am NOT a communist
and why I am anti-communist looking at
communism as a philosophy as an ideology
as a chapter in the history of political
science communism asks the wrong
questions and it does not have any of
the right answers of the two parts of
that statement the most fundamental and
most important is the claim that they're
not asking the right questions I do
think that you can participate in a
school of thought or a philosophy you
can be an adherent or you can be a
proponent of a philosophy simple
because it is asking the right questions
and it may not have any of the right
answers I think that today if you were
engaged with tera vaada Buddhism another
philosophy I'd know a lot about did a
lot of research on etc etc I think it
would be possible to really be an
adherent and a proponent of Buddhism
simply on the basis of the fact that you
believed it was asking the right
questions and some people in India and
some people in Africa have actually
converted to tera vaada Buddhism have
become involved with the religion and
the philosophy because they felt that
way
now what questions might you latch on to
and terrified about ism many people in
India actually latched on to the anti
rich element so terrifed it was like
communism engineered parallel that the
critique of the attack on the privileges
of the wealthy of the elite they latched
on to the anti-racist antique caste
system elements which are there from
ancient Buddhism you know with ancient
India had its own racists the
conceptions its own elitist philosophies
and you get counter points to those
philosophies within the ancient Canon of
philosophy of Buddhism some people in
Africa I think we're interested in that
too so attacks on the privilege attacks
on the the elite and the attempts of
that religion in its own terms to in
some sense be promoting the interests of
the poor and the downtrodden which it's
inconsistent on I mean terrible Buddhism
is not a revolutionary philosophy it's
not a utopian social philosophy that's
it never offers to destroy the
inequality of rich and poor to replace
it something better but nevertheless
those elements are there and those
questions are being asked whether or not
within Buddhist philosophy you find
really useful answers to the question
whether or not you find a better or
social system to replace the socialism
we've got with so in many cases simply
having the right questions is enough to
pull people in is enough to sustain a
political philosophy a social movement
etc it's enough to sustain faith because
unlike communism Buddhism is quite open
about the fact that it relies on faith I
think the communist in many ways also
appeals to and relies on faith
so my rejection of communism in that
fundamental philosophical sense
can just be summed up with that and
nothing more it asks their own questions
it gives the wrong answers if you want
to read several hundred pages expanding
on this Karl Popper is a philosopher or
philosopher of science who devoted many
many pages in a book called the poverty
of historicism - looking at the
philosophical roots of communism and
what he calls historicism the attempt to
fetishize certain episodes in the
history of Europe particularly the
French Revolution and how that formed
the foundation for Marx and angles the
philosophy there they presented the
theory they presented and then the
permutation of that philosophy under
Lenin in Russia now in real world terms
so I recognize that question he really
asked me to speak to the philosophy not
to the historical reality the episodes
of what actually happened in Cambodia or
France for that matter or Japan Japan is
some bizarre history of communism
believe not aura or China or what have
you you know in terms of the
glorification of an whitewashing of
communism I think it's it is
tremendously important to face up to
just how terrible communism was under
Lenin many many people wish to remember
Lenin as a relatively good leader in
contrast to Stalin in a later period of
Russia's history the reality is and this
is one of the things that sort of most
forgotten their most ignored Russia had
elections in the year 1917 it was in the
last couple of months in 1970 I think
November of 1917 I often remember them
as the elections of 1918 because the the
convention of the elected
representatives the first Parliament
happened in January of 1918 that
Parliament was allowed to exist for one
day and after that the Bolsheviks who
lost the elections who God has ever
called um under 25% of the vote so there
would have been a minority Member of
Parliament that would have been a
minority party within problem they
hunted down and killed one at a time
the elected representatives from all of
their parties
so one of the you know most fundamental
criticisms of American foreign policy
when America was engaged in active
anti-communist uh covert ops around the
world was that America itself did not
have enough faith in democracy being
able to tolerate diverse opinions such
as communism that is a very true and
very deep cutting criticism of American
foreign policy and Laos as an example of
that in Laos America could have allowed
the country to have a democratic
Parliament which they had at one point
and to have a parliament where
communists were a minority party where
they were one voice among many debating
the future of the country and espousing
their views America should have allowed
that and in many ways communism would
have lost its mystique it would have
lost its edge it would have been just
another party in the house of parliament
that had opinions about taxes and
improving the roads and expanding the
electricity network and all the
pragmatic day-to-day activities of
government they could have been standing
in that problem at debating those things
as equals with other parties who had
different views within a democratic
system and actually Laos as an example
there were many if you're interested in
Latin America's history other countries
of the world where America felt they
could not tolerate that in America
covertly were primarily talking about
the CAA but other CIA State Department
other other organs of American foreign
policy but especially you know the
Dulles brothers at that time John Foster
Dulles etc um they shut down that
Parliament they prevented that from
happening and they really forced the
country into a civil war situation where
the Communists became an armed
opposition in exile with their own zone
of control fighting against the
government of the capital city etc and
that's a pattern that played out around
the world partly because America wanted
that way or at least the Dulles brothers
certain people who were very powerful
with in American foreign policy want it
that way that is very sad however you
can't overlook crucially that in the
history of communism starting already
with Marx and Engels the refusal to
allow democracy the refusal to allow the
fair conte
of contrasting opinions that is actually
built into communism it's obviously it's
evident in Lenin when Lenin decided to
shut down that Parliament and instead
ultimately hunt down and kill every
representative of the winning party the
socialist revolutionary party who were
themselves far left-wing there are
called social democrats or socialist
democrats in historical retrospect but
in any other context they would have
just been considered a rival communist
party they're called the socialist
revolutionaries for God's name you know
they are far left but the Communists in
Russia were especially brutal and
hunting down and killing their their
close competitors that way they didn't
want to have another legitimate
political party representing the future
of communism future social having
contrasting opinions they didn't want to
have a parliament they didn't wanna have
open debate and built into the
philosophy of Marx and Engels you have
to look at how they responded to how
they built their own philosophy on the
historical experience of the French
Revolution and in many ways their
opinion both Marx and Engels right at
the beginning this process was that the
French Revolution was not violent enough
was not extreme enough that it should
have gone further in its extremist
tendencies to talk about not learning
the lessons of history Marx and angles
from the start embraced the notion that
violence is the only way to progress in
history of the world and yes some of
those ideas they took from little bits
and pieces of Hegel but that's much
exaggerated now in retrospect if you
actually look at how much you know Marx
in DES capital volume one he is almost
nothing in common with Hegel but people
like to point to this idea as being a
Hegelian idea in Markman but the amount
of time those guys spent going over the
details of the french revolutions much
more important to the progress of their
thinking but these are people who
embraced an historical path of violence
and they thought that we're gonna live
in a period when the you know contest
between communism capitalism became more
and more violent and that violence not
democracy not debate not the free
interplay of ideas was going to be the
only way for this philosophy to progress
and in that one aspect they say it's
already in Marx already and angles of
course it's already in Lenin but we
don't even have to talk about Stalin or
Mao Zedong or Pol Pot we don't to get
into Cambodia or these other even more
extreme examples at its core this is a
problem with communists
that totally vitiates and totally
invalidates anything else in its
philosophy that might be worthwhile and
for a contrast tera vaada buddhism does
not have that problem and tera vaada
buddhism also appeals to some of these
sentiments in humanity of wanting to be
pro-poor and anti rich to challenge
established elites to a static challenge
feudalism itself if you like whether
you're looking at an aristocratic
society or a capitalist society in which
there's a you know an elite of wealthy
people who are almost aristocrats
whatever your social circumstances may
be and has to be said Cole popper
mentions this briefly - in his critique
it's very interesting to point out the
extent to which even Catholicism in the
modern world appeals to the same
sentiments as communism that very often
Catholics justify their faith justify
what their their religious organization
is doing in terms of advocacy for the
poor helping the poor
so communists never had any exclusive
claim to those sentiments to those be
seized for their social movement but
although Catholicism is also guilty of
atrocities on an unbelievable scale I
think you can argue that that's not
built into the core philosophy of
Catholicism although I'm an atheist I
don't agree with Catholicism it is very
easy of course to argue likewise with
Buddhism with tera vaada Buddhism that
massacres and this kind of violence and
hunting down and killing people who
disagree with you is not in any way
built into the DNA of tera vaada
Buddhism it's not in the core philosophy
it's not in the core political
philosophy or social program not at all
in the contrary tera vaada Buddhism in
theory you shouldn't even be killing
insects
it's very anti violence although in some
ways it's resigned to violence being
inevitable that would be another video
so yes even in trying to constrain my
answer as requested in this letter from
my patreon supporter it's very very
important that we recognize the role of
violence in the philosophy itself not as
a leader corruption that crept into the
philosophy not as something incidental
or accidental but as a core issue and
problem within communism from the first
and as bad as communism was as I've said
so briefly and vaguely in asking the
wrong questions and having the wrong
answers this
most ensured that it could not adapt
that it could not become a better
philosophy with the passage of time and
indeed it didn't and it encouraged you
to look under any heading for example
agricultural policy why is it that this
philosophy on a macro scale fostered
such absurd notions at a under a smaller
heading like agriculture why is it that
they continued to have ridiculous false
pseudo scientific ideas about
agriculture even when millions of people
were dying even when the consequences
were so terrible
well again part of that their refusal to
allow a democracy their refusal to look
positively on some kind of Socratic
exchange of opinions criticism
recognizing what's wrong and adapting
your core principles the the very anti
progressive elements within communism
from the first already in Marx and
Engels already in Lenin the same
principles that led them to hunt down
and kill not just people who disagree
with them in an extreme way not people
who are example monarchists but of
wanting to hunt down and kill a rival
party so similar to the Communists as
the socialist revolutionaries a tendency
that again you can see in the history of
China the history of Cambodia elsewhere
where it's the people who maybe agree
with them on nine points out of ten who
are seen as the most dire threat to the
Bolshevik Party or whatever the ruling
Communist Party is that same tendency
which is hardwired into the philosophy
led to a refusal to ever accept of you
know recognizing oh my God we're
promoting agricultural policies that
instead of increasing the amount of food
is resulting in starvation we're
pursuing economic policies that are
causing whole industries to collapse and
are leaving people without shoes in
clothes all these ridiculous sorry I
mean go disco means there are ridiculous
examples of that so yes you know these
are very fundamental problems that you
can find the roots of in the philosophy
but it's important that you don't
examine the philosophy in isolation
because when you're looking at when the
philosophy was put into practice the
defects of that philosophy become all
the more evident to all of us they
become writ large
with enormous body counts with some of
the worst episodes in the history of
human nature and again if you can't
learn from that in the same way that
Marx and Engels really refuse to learn
from what went wrong in history of the
French Revolution you know you're
trapped in the same cycle of making
excuses for some of the worst disasters
in human history instead of recognizing
the disasters really learning from what
went wrong and then adapting and moving
forward and from my perspective I mean
the failure of communism the failures
plural were so fundamental I I think
there's absolutely no way moving forward
in 21st century that we can't how
there's no other way to adapt other than
discarding communism itself root and
branch in principle and in practice